Gun Rights Group That Almost No One Has Heard Of Backs Manchin-Toomey Legislation 
    





 
   	
				
			 
						 
			 Written By : William Teach April 15, 2013 
			 
			 			 This makes the Liberals at the Washington Post really, really happy, though, really, the Manchin-Toomey legislation is not much more than a token bill, which wouldn’t have stopped Newtown, Aurora, the Gabby Giffords shooting, Nidal Hasan, won’t stop the violence in Chicago, etc
 
 
 ADVERTISEMENT 
 

 

 
 
 In anticipation of Senate votes this week on a proposed expansion of criminal background checks for firearms sales, one gun rights organization broke with the powerful National Rifle Association on Sunday to urge support for a compromise drafted by Sens. Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.) and Patrick J. Toomey (R-Pa.). 
 The endorsement by the Citizens Committee for the Right to Keep and Bear Arms — which calls itself the second-largest gun rights organization in the country, behind the NRA, claiming 650,000 members and supporters — is one of several moves over the past few days that have provided a boost to the hopes of proponents of background checks. 
 Actually, that number is closer to 600k than 650k. The NRA has 4 million. And, I don’t know about you, but I’ve never heard of them. That’s not to denigrate them, just point out that they are relatively unknown. Interestingly, the Credentialed Liberal Media ignored the CCRKB when they were writing things like 

 As far as breaking with the NRA, mentioned in the first paragraph, do reporters ever investigate what they write about, or do the just spin? Because the NRA did not opposed the bill , they just said that it would not stop crime. The Wall Street Journal gets it wrong, too, along with a raft of others. 
 Anyhow, one of the interesting things that the bill might allow would be reciprocity (which, according to the Constitution, should already be in place), but this would formalize it, meaning people would be allowed to bring their guns and their concealed carry permit to more stringent states. 
 Crossed at Pirate’s Cove . Follow me on Twitter @WilliamTeach . 




						
							 


 
 
  1