Supporters of a bipartisan proposal to expand background checks for gun sales are racing to secure Senate votes this week for what would be the most significant gun-control legislation in years. 
 Opponents, meantime, are raising questions about whether the measure would reduce gun violence or could have prevented the recent high-profile shootings, such as in Newtown, Conn., that motivated lawmakers to act. 
 Many gun-rights supporters argue that background checks do little to prevent gun violence, saying that firearms can be bought readily on the black market. 
 Gun-control advocates, while hailing the measure as a move in the right direction, lament a compromise that would exempt private firearm sales from the checks, including to friends and neighbors of gun owners. 
 "The bill is riddled with holes, and frankly it's hard to know what it's going to accomplish," said Adam Winkler, a Second Amendment expert and law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, who widely is regarded as a moderate on the gun issue. 
 
     Timeline: Gun Control in the U.S. 
     Since the American Revolution, when colonists went to war against Great Britain, the right to bear arms has been central to—and controversial in—American culture. 

     
      

     
    The two senators behind the background-check measure, Joe Manchin (D., W.Va.) and Pat Toomey (R., Pa.), said Sunday they were hoping to win enough backing from Republicans and conservative Democrats to clear the high hurdle of securing the 60 votes needed to overcome GOP opposition. Sixteen Republicans voted last week to begin debate on gun-control legislation, but fewer GOP lawmakers are expected to support the bipartisan amendment. 
 "It's an open question as to whether or not we have the votes," Mr. Toomey said on CNN. "I think it's going to be close." 
 The Senate likely will consider the background-checks amendment on Wednesday or Thursday, Mr. Toomey said Sunday. It would require all people buying guns online and at gun shows to undergo a background check through a licensed dealer. Currently, only licensed dealers have to perform background checks and keep a record of sales. 
 The checks are meant to ferret out drug abusers, fugitives, people with significant criminal histories and those declared mentally unfit by a court or similar body, all of whom are barred from buying guns under federal law. 
 Both senators have cast the amendment as a common-sense approach to prevent dangerous people from illegally acquiring guns without impeding any constitutional rights to own a firearm. 
 "We have a chance to save lives and not infringe on law-abiding citizens of this country, gun owners like myself and Pat," said Mr. Manchin on CBS. "We had that opportunity and God help us if we don't do it." 
 Messrs. Toomey and Manchin have been courting the lawmakers who largely will decide the measure's fate: the Republicans who voted last week to bring the Senate's main gun-control bill to the floor and red-state Democrats, including several up for re-election in 2014. 
 Mr. Manchin has met with Senate colleagues in every corner of the Capitol, discussing the background-checks proposal with Sen. John Thune (R., S.D.) in the gym, with Sens. Heidi Heitkamp (D., N.D.) and John McCain (R., Ariz.) on the Senate floor and with Sens. Lisa Murkowski (R., Alaska) and Susan Collins (R., Maine) at a joint lunch honoring Mr. McCain last week, according to his staff. 
 On Sunday, Mr. McCain told CNN that he was "very favorably disposed" toward the measure, while Ms. Collins told NBC News on Saturday that she plans to support the proposal. 
 Mr. Manchin also penned handwritten notes to about 25 senators, both Republicans and Democrats, affixed to fact sheets outlining the proposal to be distributed to lawmakers on the Senate floor, his aide said. 
 The lawmakers are also looking ahead to the measure's potential next hurdle in the GOP-controlled House. Speaker John Boehner (R., Ohio) has said the House will decide what gun legislation to consider once it sees what the Senate passes. Mr. Manchin reached out last week to Mr. Boehner and House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R., Va.) to set up a phone call for this week to discuss the legislation, according to his staff. 
 Meanwhile, opponents have ramped up efforts to block what could be the most significant change to gun laws to pass the Senate of those advocated by President Barack Obama in the wake of the elementary school shooting in Newtown, Conn., last December. 
 Other proposed measures, including a ban on certain semiautomatic rifles known as "assault weapons" and a limit to high-capacity ammunition magazines, are expected to fall short when they come up for votes later this month. 
 The National Rifle Association, the country's largest gun-rights group, has opposed the background-check amendment, calling it misguided and ineffective in preventing further violence. The NRA's lobbying arm warned lawmakers in a letter last week that it will consider their vote on the amendment in its influential rankings of legislators. 
 Gun Owners of America, a gun-rights organization based in Springfield, Va., sent out an alert asking its members to pressure their lawmakers not to support the amendment, the group's legislative counsel, Michael Hammond, said in an interview. 
 But two smaller gun-rights groups endorsed the measure Sunday, including the Citizens Committee for the Right To Keep and Bear Arms, the nation's second-largest gun-rights lobbying group, according to its chairman, Alan Gottlieb. He noted that the measure also expands "a good number of pro-gun rights measures as well," such as strengthening veterans' ability to purchase a firearm. 
 
    Richard Feldman, president of the Independent Firearm Owners Association, said in an interview Sunday he also backed the measure. He said the group supports background checks at gun shows because "you're selling to people you don't know who they are." 
 Skeptics of expanded background checks from along the political spectrum point to statistics showing that most criminals get their guns through private transfers or sales, which are exempted from background checks in the amendment. 
 In the most recent U.S. Justice Department survey of state inmates imprisoned for handgun-related offenses, nearly 40% of the 1,400 respondents said they got their guns from friends or family members, while about 38% said they got them from "street or black-market suppliers." 
 Josh Horwitz, executive director of the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, in Washington, D.C., said: "We were pushing for a universal background-check bill and this isn't one. The bill specifically doesn't say anything about private sales, which are a major trafficking channel." 
 Closing the gun-show loophole alone could reduce the trafficking of guns used in crimes, said Mark Glaze, the director of Mayors Against Illegal Guns. 
 According to Mr. Glaze, before the 1999 Columbine mass shooting, Colorado ranked 17th among the states as an exporter of guns that later turned up at crime scenes. Colorado closed its gun-show loophole the following year, and by 2009, its ranking had fallen to 32nd among the states, Mr. Glaze said. 
 
     Write to     Ashby Jones at ashby.jones@wsj.com and Kristina Peterson at kristina.peterson@dowjones.com 
    

 A version of this article appeared April 15, 2013, on page A1 in the U.S. edition of The Wall Street Journal, with the headline: Race for   Support   Before Key   Gun Vote.