Anyone who follows public opinion outside of the media -- talking to neighbors and casual acquaintances, or reading comments online -- knows that a very vocal fringe doesn't want any changes in gun laws save getting rid of them  altogether.  Fringe.  Most of the people I know is my gun-crazy community in Texas have no problems with limiting gun ownership to responsible users.   
 But Congress -- members of both parties -- are listening to fringe and to the NRA.  
  
  
 In spite of a vote last Thursday in favor of debating new gun measures,  
some Democrats who are facing re-election next year in conservative  
states have already said they will not vote for the background check  
measure offered by Senators Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of  
Pennsylvania, and Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, forcing  
Democrats to look desperately across the aisle to fill the gaps.    
  
Republicans, in the meantime, are bitterly torn between moderates who  
feel pressure to respond to polls showing a majority of Americans in  
support of some new gun regulations and conservatives who are deeply  
opposed to them.    
  
Further, an impending immigration bill may force Republicans to choose between softening their stance on either immigration or guns, but not both. ... NYT  
  
 There is evidence that lobbying by and on behalf of Newtown families is having a positive  effect,  according to NPR news .  Still,  that coupling  of immigration and guns is ample proof that our representatives are irresponsible ...if you still  need proof.  
 ___  
 There's an interesting change of attitude among right-wing evangelicals.  They are now increasingly in favor of easing up on immigration laws.  And one key reason is that right-wing evangelical immigrants would likely vote Republican.  
  
 As the immigration reform debate moves forward in Congress and in our 
 nation, evangelical leaders continue to strongly support just and  
accountable immigration solutions. Today, prominent Florida and national 
 faith leaders spoke at “Who is My Neighbor? An Evangelical Forum on Immigration,” 
 where local residents discussed the urgency for a new immigration  
process based on biblical principles. The discussion follows the launch  
of the Evangelical Immigration Table’s immigration radio ad campaign in Florida and other key states. 
  
 Matthew Soerens, a nationally recognized evangelical leader, spoke  
with Florida evangelical leader Travis Trice about the complexities of  
the debate for fellow Christians. They urged attendees to turn to  
scripture to see what Jesus had to say about welcoming the stranger and  
asked them to pray and strategize about how to improve our immigration  
process.  
 Said Matthew Soerens, U.S. Church Training Specialist, World Relief, “We 
 are working to build a moral movement of evangelicals who believe in  
just and practical immigration solutions that include an earned process  
for citizenship. Tens of thousands of Christians have accepted the ‘I Was a Stranger Challenge’  
 and are reading 40 days of Bible verse to learn about God’s heart for  
the immigrant. This is inspiring a new and productive conversation in  
our churches about the value of immigrants and immigration to our  
nation.” ... Evangelical Immigration Table  
  
  
___ 
  
 Meanwhile, the NRA has lost a big ally.  
  
 In anticipation of Senate votes this week on a proposed expansion of criminal background checks for firearms sales, one gun rights organization broke with the powerful National Rifle Association on Sunday to urge support for a compromise drafted by Sens. Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.) and Patrick J. Toomey (R-Pa.).  The endorsement by the Citizens Committee for the Right to Keep and Bear Arms — which calls itself the second-largest gun rights organization in the country, behind the NRA, claiming 650,000 members and supporters — is one of several moves over the past few days that have provided a boost to the hopes of proponents of background checks.  While leading gun-control advocates — including President Obama and New York Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg (I) — back the bipartisan proposal, the announcement of support Sunday from the Citizens Committee reveals that substantial parts of the bill are viewed as “wins” for the gun lobby, including provisions that would prohibit a government registry of gun ownership and make it easier to transport and market weapons across state lines.  Though news of a split in the usually unified gun lobby cheered gun-control advocates, the gun lobby can count other probable wins in the current debate, such as the likely defeat of legislation to limit military-style assault weapons and high-capacity ammunition magazines. Now, an expansion of background-check requirements for gun sales is considered the most likely major achievement. ... WaPo  
  
The insistence on the "freedom" to own unregistered military weapons and mass-killer magazines will, in the end, be the downfall of the gun lobby, I'd be willing to bet.