To pass Manchin-Toomey, at least five Republicans must back it. Fifty-five senators caucus with the Democrats, but not all are sure bets to embrace the background check legislation. Sens. Mark Pryor (D-Ark.) and Mark Begich (D-Alaska) last week voted against the motion to proceed to the gun control debate. Both are up for reelection next year and support gun rights. [...] But Democrats who declined to comment or didn’t say definitively where they stand on Manchin-Toomey include Sens. Max Baucus (Mont.), Heidi Heitkamp (N.D.) and Mary Landrieu (La.) . [ The Hill ] 
 TRYING TO keep your job by refusing to do your job on gun safety is in full sight in the Senate. It’s a very tight squeeze as to whether the Manchin-Toomey bill will get passed in the Senate right now. The Szep graphic above is not quite accurate, because it’s not just men who are refusing to back the bill. 
 Universal background checks is the most important element of any gun safety efforts that can come out of Washington. The majority of gun owners support it, as do many in the N.R.A., though I use them as an example with one eye shut, because their leadership a disgrace. 
 Manchin-Toomey is the best chance we’ve had to get meaningful gun safety passed in decades. If it goes down in the Senate it will be a huge win for the extremists and the N.R.A., but a huge loss for the majority of Americans, including a lot of gun owners, including my husband and me. 
 President Obama still wants to push for an assault weapons ban, but it has exactly zero chance of getting through Congress. Senator Feinstein and many others have championed this effort, but it is futile. The other fact remains that you simply cannot ban assault weapons in the U.S., because there is always a way around laws, allowing people to build their own, so to speak. 
 Any serious gun safety efforts start with universal background checks. 
 If Congress can’t pass universal background checks when the vast majority of Americans want it it’s further proof that the American Congress is obsolete and no longer serves the majority in our country. Keep your fingers crossed, and if you live somewhere and your senator isn’t supporting universal background checks, get on the phone. 
 Call your senator . 
	 
	  
	  
	  
		 About Taylor Marsh  
		Veteran political analyst and author of "The Hillary Effect." Former Miss Missouri, Broadway performer, &amp; relationship consultant at the LA Weekly, produced a one-woman show titled "Weeping for JFK," media flak extraordinaire.				  
			  
	  
  
	  