Ariana Cubillos/Associated Press Nicolás Maduro greeted supporters as he left a polling station after voting in Caracas. 
 NEWS In an unexpectedly close race, Venezuelans narrowly voted to continue Hugo Chávez’s revolution, electing his handpicked political heir, Nicolás Maduro, to serve the remainder of his six-year term as president, officials said late Sunday. William Neuman reports from Caracas. 
 Secretary of State John Kerry said Sunday that the United States was prepared to reach out to Kim Jong-un of North Korea if he made the first move to abandon his nuclear weapons program. Michael R. Gordon reports from Tokyo. 
 Reporters who joined students from the London School of Economics on a sight-seeing trip to North Korea did not disclose their true purpose and filmed an undercover documentary, the university said. Ravi Somaiya reports. 
 Johannes Eisele/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Members of Alternative for Germany, which held a party congress on Sunday in a Berlin hotel. 
 With less than six months to go before parliamentary elections in Germany, a new political party, Alternative for Germany, is calling for an end to the European currency union is gaining strength. Nicholas Kulish and Melissa Eddy report from Berlin. 
 The U.S. Supreme Court is poised to take up the highly charged question of whether human genes can be patented. But another question could trump it: Has the field of genetics moved so far so fast that whatever the court decides, it has come too late to the issue? Andrew Pollack reports. 
 Google has for the first time agreed to legally binding changes to its search results after an antitrust investigation by European regulators into whether it abuses its dominance of online search. Claire Cain Miller reports. 
 The Chinese economic recovery lost some of its momentum during the first quarter of this year, official data released on Monday showed, surprising analysts who had expected growth to accelerate on the back of ample credit, strong infrastructure spending and firm exports. Bettina Wassener and Chris Buckley report from Hong Kong. 
 ARTS Sir Colin Davis, the magisterial conductor whose career with the London Symphony Orchestra spanned more than half a century, including 11 years as its principal conductor, died on Sunday. Michael Schwirtz reports. 
 David Cannon/Getty Images 
 SPORTS Adam Scott became the first Australian golfer to win the Masters when he drained a 12-foot birdie putt on the second playoff hole Sunday and defeated Ángel Cabrera of Argentina, whose birdie bid moments earlier had died on the edge of the cup. Karen Crouse reports from Augusta, Georgia. 
 It made for an exciting race full of sound and fury, with multiple pit stops, multiple changes of position and six different leaders. But the result of the Chinese Grand Prix on Sunday signified very little, as the top three qualifiers also finished in the top three positions — albeit, in the reverse order of their starting positions. Brad Spurgeon reports from Shanghai.