 
				 
				 There was nothing especially subtle about the way Barack Obama played the politics of class resentment against Mitt Romney in 2012. “My opponent,” Obama brayed in Virginia Beach last fall, “thinks that someone who makes $20 million a year, like him, should pay a lower [tax] rate than a cop or a teacher who makes $50,000.”  
				 Continue Reading  
				  
	 
	 
 
 
					  
					 Obama campaigns in Va. Beach  
					 
					 
					 
					  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
					  
					 
					 
					 
					  
				 
					  
						 
		 
		 
		   
		 
		 
					  
				 
				  
 
			 
			 
 
 	 
 
 And there was nothing especially mysterious about the reason: Class warfare works.  
 ( PHOTOS: 18 defining Obama moments )  
 That fundamental reality of the Obama years — that the president won a second term in large part because he gave new life to an old brand of class-based politics — continues to echo six months later as the dominant factor shaping American politics this spring, as the parties slog through the latest fiscal fight.  
 Both parties are in the midst of intense and far-reaching debates about how to respond.  
 Among Republicans, alarmed by the long-term implications of Obama’s victory, there is an argument over whether a new era of politics driven by economic grievance requires only a change of messaging and a less ripe-for-caricature messenger than Romney — or a much more fundamental rethinking of its policy agenda.  
 ( Also on POLITICO: OFA’s first quarter haul: $4.8 million )  
 Among Democrats there is division over whether Obama is squandering his victory by embracing in his new budget the idea that popular entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare must be trimmed to make them more affordable. Many liberals believe that this stance represents a surrender, in politics and substance alike, in what is their side’s most potent class-conflict weapon.  
 But to Obama loyalists, Democrats must act now to preserve their hallowed New Deal and Great Society accomplishments so they’re not emasculated later under a Republican president.  
 “The most persuasive case for reforming Medicare is saving Medicare,” said Obama strategist David Axelrod. “You don’t want to see the Big Bad Wolf making those decisions.”  
 ( Also on POLITICO: W.H. divides over whistleblowers )  
 Other Democrats fret that Republicans outfoxed Obama on entitlements. “He wants to look like a centrist and all he did was let them make him own it,” said Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn.), co-chairman of the House Progressive Caucus. “It’s terrible politics.”  
 For Obama, this spring’s fights over class represent both a political challenge and a definitional moment. His most consistent argument — that higher taxes on the well-to-do are the essential element in preserving popular government benefits to the middle-class and poor — is in tension with his most consistent promise, that his presidency will break Washington gridlock and elevate problem-solving over ideological purity.  
 The latest era of class-conflict politics is mild by historic standards. On his most combative day, Obama never denounces “malefactors of great wealth,” in Theodore Roosevelt’s phrase, or boasted, as Franklin D. Roosevelt did, that the “economic royalists” are “unanimous in their hate for me — and I welcome their hatred.”  
 ( Also on POLITICO: The Obamas gross $180K less in ‘12 than in ‘11 )  
 On the other hand, Obama’s dependence on class-based politics shows how far the country has moved from the politics of a generation ago. In Bill Clinton’s presidency, he and centrist political advisers like the pollster Mark Penn concluded that any appeal that smacked of class warfare was a loser for Democrats. Their belief was that even most swing voters who weren’t rich wanted to be, or at least didn’t resent those who were, and wanted Democrats to preach a message of unity and bipartisan progress.  
 In the ’80s and ’90s, class-warfare politics was typically employed effectively by conservatives — not on economic issues but on cultural ones. People like Ronald Reagan and Newt Gingrich warned middle-class voters that liberal elites wanted to impose their values on abortion, diversity and gun control on an unwilling country.  
  
	   
 
			  