Politico looks at how Obama and the Democrats have maintained power by making class warfare arguments and what a difference this is from how Bill Clinton framed his political arguments. And the Republicans are playing catch up.

 Even Democrats are starting to recognize some of the severest problems with Obamacare. Unions are finding out how it hurts them and breaks Obama's repeated promises that people who like their plans can keep them. Kathleen Sebelius is going to have to try harder than simply blaming Republicans for all the failures.
 
This is truly depressing - how those who have been out of work for more than six months face extremely high odds of even getting a call-back for a job interview. Research sending out identical fake resumes that differ only in the length of time the applicant has been unemployed shows that "the first thing employers look at is how long you've been out of work, and that's the only thing they look at if it's been six months or longer."

 Lawrence Summers argues that America is not suffering from a problem of political gridlock.
 
Gregory Sorenson, a former professor at Harvard Medical School who now heads up Siemens Healthcare explains how Obamacare's tax on medical devices will retard Obama's recent announcement of an initiative to map the brain. I love this quote he uses from Robert Frost: "The brain is a wonderful organ; it starts working the moment you get up in the morning and does not stop until you get into the office." When it comes to our nation's politicians - isn't that the truth?
 
Barack Obama's proposed budget is now going after our 401(k)'s. 

 Timothy Carney explains why the MSM has ignored the horrific stories emerging from abortionists Kermit Gosnell's murder trial: what he did was all too similar to the position on partial-birth abortion that Barack Obama has endorsed, defended, and used to raise money on. And the media have a history of ignoring such stories about late-term abortion.
 
Obama's last gasp for achieving the type of gun control he would like is to use the U.N. Arms Trade Treaty. 
 
The Gadsden flag with "Don't Tread On Me" as the slogan is now being considered too offensive to fly in public because of its association with the Tea Party.