 
				 
				 Mitch McConnell still hasn’t gotten over December’s traumatic fiscal cliff showdown . The Senate minority leader has signaled privately that he has no interest in sitting in the same room as Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) to discuss a possible “grand bargain” on budget and tax issues, Senate insiders tell POLITICO.  
				 Continue Reading  
				  
	 
	 
 
 
					  
					 McConnell would rather negotiate with Obama - Mike Allen reports  
					 
					 
					 
					  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
					  
					 
					 
					 
					  
				 
					  
					 Reid, McConnell spar on fiscal cliff negotiations  
					 
					 
					 
					  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
						  
					  
					 
					 
					 
					  
				 
					  
						 
		 
		 
		   
		 
		 
					  
				 
				  
 
			 
			 
 
 	 
 
 McConnell is fine with talking to Obama — just talking at this point — but he doesn’t want Reid there when it happens.  
 Such is life in Congress, where hope of bipartisanship is giving way to the same old toxic relations.  
 ( PHOTOS: Mitch McConnell's career and life )  
 From the outside, the Senate appeared to have the bipartisan thing down this spring: so called “gangs” of senators have hashed out agreements on guns and immigration. President Barack Obama has had two dinners with Senate Republicans and traveled up to the Hill to meet with lawmakers from both chambers.  
 But the good feelings have really been only in the Senate, and only among a minority of Republicans to boot. Bad blood remains between party leaders and the national partisan realities haven’t changed.  
 And while the leaders don’t get along, relationships among the other 98 senators will be tested when voting begins on the controversial gun and immigration measures — starting with this week’s expected vote on expanding background checks for firearms purchases. McConnell plans to pull out all the stops to block the bill, and GOP senators are blasting any immigration plan that they say smells of “amnesty.”  
 ( Also on POLITICO: Business groups peel off as immigration details leak )  
 That’s just the Senate. House Republicans, their own seats made even safer by redistricting, are in no hurry bring up immigration, gun control or revenue issues or cave in to Obama or Democrats.  
 In May, House Republicans will hold what they are dubbing a “special conference” to plan for the summer’s policy fights with Democrats, similar to their January meeting in Williamsburg, Va., in which they successfully recalibrated early year budget fights, according to GOP leadership aides.  
 “I don’t see this as a wave and there’s something in the water that has us changed,” said Rep. James Lankford of Oklahoma, chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee.  
 ( Also on POLITICO: Sessions, Schumer spar on reform )  
 Democratic Rep. Chris Van Hollen of Maryland seemed to agree.  
 “On the House side, unfortunately you got a very knee-jerk ideologically rigid caucus for the most part,” said Van Hollen, the top Democrat on the Budget Committee. “The most active part of the House Republican Caucus is the tea party movement. They still dominate the discussion.”  
 The GOP’s meeting in May is likely to center around the debt ceiling, which could be another high-stakes summer showdown with Obama. House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) and the leadership are likely to present a few scenarios to the conference and see which one sticks.  
 How that works out may depend on what — if anything — House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and his Senate counterpart Patty Murray (D-Wash.) do on a budget conference committee that addresses entitlements, debts and taxes. Both the House and Senate passed budget resolutions, but the two sides remain far apart on spending, taxes and reforming entitlement programs.  
 If Murray and Ryan move ahead with talks yet fail to come to some sort of final deal, it would be an embarrassing setback.  
 
			  