The document, named “Keys to the City,” was largely drawn from a booklet of the same title , theme, and format that he distributed five years ago, in anticipation of a mayoral bid in 2009 that he later abandoned.   
Mr. Weiner, who said the report was intended merely to “generate some discussion,” did expand on his old ideas and added a few new ones, including a city-run single-payer health care program; a requirement that sex offenders wear GPS tags for easy tracking; and a British House of Commons-style “question time” for New York City’s mayor.   
But many sentences and, in some cases, complete paragraphs, are repeated verbatim from the earlier document, and the updated booklet does not address many high-profile issues in this year’s mayoral contest, including the police tactic of stop, question and frisk.   
The release of the report — paid for by Mr. Weiner’s campaign funds and posted to a Web site that he first registered in 2008 — underscores the widespread puzzlement over his recent actions, as New York’s political world wonders if he is pursuing some sort of trial balloon or laying the foundation for a serious campaign for mayor.   
Less than two years after resigning his Congressional seat , Mr. Weiner, a Democrat, is in the midst of a step-by-step re-entry into public life. He broke his silence about the scandal in an 8,000-word profile published on Sunday in The New York Times Magazine, and he has signaled that he plans to sit for a series of news interviews in the coming days.   
In a telephone interview on Sunday, Mr. Weiner tried to restrict the conversation to the ideas in the policy document, repeatedly declining to answer inquiries about how seriously he was considering a candidacy.   
“I would take it on face value,” he said of the report. “I want these issues to be discussed and debated irrespective of who’s in the race.”   
He acknowledged that the report was an “amalgam” of his ideas over the years, but he became exasperated when pressed on the similarities between the document and its 2008 predecessor. “To some degree, this is the problem with reporting on politics these days,” he said, trailing off before exhaling loudly.   
Mr. Weiner was asked if the timing of the release, coming shortly after the Times Magazine article, could be viewed as a signal that he would soon enter the race. “I’ll leave it to the reader to try to derive motivation,” he replied.   
Mr. Weiner’s exploration of a mayoral bid, including his commissioning of a series of telephone polls of New York City voters, has attracted national headlines and provoked a variety of reactions from leading politicians.   
Eliot Spitzer, the former New York governor who resigned after his own sex scandal, said in a radio interview on Saturday that Mr. Weiner “will make it as a serious candidate if he plunges in, as I think he will.” Mr. Spitzer added, “He will have to persuade the public. He can do it.”   
Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, Mr. Weiner’s former mentor, would not comment on the matter when asked about it on a Sunday talk show. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, on his Friday radio show, urged the news media to focus on Mr. Weiner’s policies, saying, “One joke is fine; after that, let’s get serious.”   
In the policy booklet, heavy on statistics, Mr. Weiner lays out a case for dozens of proposals.   
He calls for so-called instant runoff elections, in which voters would rank their preferred candidates, to avoid the cost of holding a citywide runoff two weeks after the primary. He says the city should offer tax breaks to employers that encourage their workers to commute by bicycle.   
Mr. Weiner also declares any congestion pricing proposal as “dead,” and suggests the city focus instead on reducing truck traffic and installing parking meters that can adjust prices based on demand.   
A section on health care proposes that the city create its own health care program for “uninsured and underinsured” New Yorkers. Mr. Weiner also suggests that city workers be required to pay a portion of their health care premium costs.   
The earlier report was released in July 2008, with the same skyline logo and same description of New York as “the capital of the middle class” as the report Mr. Weiner released on Sunday.   
Vast chunks of the text from the 2008 report have been transferred, verbatim in many cases, to the 2013 version. In other instances, phrases and sentences have been repeated, but rearranged or slightly reworded.   
Some adjustments appeared to have been made for the purpose of timeliness. In 2008, Mr. Weiner wrote: “For every investor who has a made a killing during an I.P.O., there’s a neighborhood pharmacist who has been put out of business by a big chain.”   
In the new document, there is a version of that sentence more in line with today’s post-crash Wall Street: “For every private equity firm that made a fortune, there’s a neighborhood pharmacist who has been put out of business by a big chain.”   
The word “impotent,” which appeared in the earlier version in a description of the city’s relationship with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, has been removed from the 2013 version.   
The cover of the 2008 report featured a neighborhood tableau of elevated train tracks and a corner-store pharmacy; that image has been replaced with glossy snapshots of New York landmarks from each of the five boroughs.   
And a photograph of Mr. Weiner no longer appears on the cover. His former title, Representative, has also been excised.